README.md, before:

# saancho

> Command Line Password Manager

Saancho (Key) is a command line password manager that uses [gnupg](https://www.gnupg.org/) and AES256 symmetric encryption (AES256). All you have to remember is a single passphrase for your _saancho_ store and you are good to go. If you have used LastPass or Keepass, Saancho is similar thing but CLI based, small, simple and does exactly what I needed.

Implementation of Saancho is plain simple. All it does is use a file (defaults to `$HOME/.saancho.gpg` and overridable via `$SAANCHO_FILE` environment variable) to store the appropriate data and use grep and gpg (gpg2 is favored over gpg) commands.

## Installation

- Fire up your terminal and copy and run the following command:

```shell
sudo wget "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nepalihackers/saancho/master/saancho" -O /usr/bin/saancho && sudo chmod +x /usr/bin/saancho
```

## Usage

Assuming you have done a global install of `saancho`, you can run it as:

```
$ saancho
Enter the passphrase for your saancho store:

Options available

	c - create new credential
	r - read existing credential
	d - delete credential
	b - backup credentials
	i - delete credential file(re-initialize)
	e - exit Saancho

Enter the action you wish to perform:
```

The keystore is saved at `$HOME/.saancho.gpg` but if you wish to customize that, you can set `$SAANCHO_FILE` environment variable to whatever path you wish.

## Development

There's a [Dockerfile](Dockerfile) that you can use to locally test saancho during development.

##### Build a docker image

```shell
docker build -t nepalihackers/saancho .
```

##### Run the image

```shell
docker run --name s1 -it nepalihackers/saancho saancho
```

##### Restart if you exit the container

```shell
docker start s1
```

##### Execute saancho again

```shell
docker exec -it s1 saancho
```

## To Do

- ~~Implement random password generation~~
- Implement backup feature to backup to one of the cloud services (yet to figure out what service)
- Implement Copy to clipboard option

Commit message:

:sparkles: add ability to copy to clipboard for single results
closes #4

README.md, after:

# saancho

> Command Line Password Manager

Saancho (Key) is a command line password manager that uses [gnupg](https://www.gnupg.org/) and AES256 symmetric encryption (AES256). All you have to remember is a single passphrase for your _saancho_ store and you are good to go. If you have used LastPass or Keepass, Saancho is similar thing but CLI based, small, simple and does exactly what I needed.

Implementation of Saancho is plain simple. All it does is use a file (defaults to `$HOME/.saancho.gpg` and overridable via `$SAANCHO_FILE` environment variable) to store the appropriate data and use grep and gpg (gpg2 is favored over gpg) commands.

## Installation

- Fire up your terminal and copy and run the following command:

```shell
sudo wget "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nepalihackers/saancho/master/saancho" -O /usr/bin/saancho && sudo chmod +x /usr/bin/saancho
```

## Usage

Assuming you have done a global install of `saancho`, you can run it as:

```
$ saancho
Enter the passphrase for your saancho store:

Options available

	c - create new credential
	r - read existing credential
	d - delete credential
	b - backup credentials
	i - delete credential file(re-initialize)
	e - exit Saancho

Enter the action you wish to perform:
```

- The keystore is saved at `$HOME/.saancho.gpg` but if you wish to customize that, you can set `$SAANCHO_FILE` environment variable to whatever path you wish.
- Saancho can copy password to your clipboard automatically if your search yields single result. This is not enabled by default and can be enabled
by setting `SAANCHO_CLIPBOARD` env-var to `true`

## Development

There's a [Dockerfile](Dockerfile) that you can use to locally test saancho during development.

##### Build a docker image

```shell
docker build -t nepalihackers/saancho .
```

##### Run the image

```shell
docker run --name s1 -it nepalihackers/saancho saancho
```

##### Restart if you exit the container

```shell
docker start s1
```

##### Execute saancho again

```shell
docker exec -it s1 saancho
```

## To Do

- ~~Implement random password generation~~
- Implement backup feature to backup to one of the cloud services (yet to figure out what service)
- ~~Implement Copy to clipboard option~~
